---
layout: post
title: "Injuries"
date: 2016-05-18
author: Matt
active: blog
---

Injuries are a worry for any runner, especially when you are deep into training. And of course injuries come in all shapes and sizes and as a result of many different root causes. As I started training in earnest late last year, I increased my mileage too quickly and picked up a knee injury as a result. A period of frustrating inactivity followed. To protect my knees, I  decided to adjust my running style but with changes in style comes knock on effects on other areas of the body. In this case it was my foot that suffered and another period of frustrating inactivity followed. 
<br><br>
That was back in February and up until a week ago I had enjoyed a fantastic stretch of injury free bliss! I am pleased to report that my latest injury is a minor one however its cause has meant that it is no less frustrating than my previous mishaps. 
<br><br>
In a nutshell I fell over. I was running home during the beautiful spell of hot weather that we recently enjoyed and turned into a small south London park full with people enjoying the sun. In order to cut the corner and head across the park I made the decision to jump over a shin high railing (it was more of a hop). But something went wrong; my hop wasn’t high enough and my leading foot caught the railing bringing me crashing down onto my left knee.  
<br><br>
The cut that resulted was pretty deep and understandably my body reacted with a king sized bruise. It’s important to learn lessons in life and in this case it is to jump rather than hop!

