---
layout: post
title: "London"
date:   2016-06-13
author: Matt
active: blog
---
I love London. I love living here, I love working here and I love running here too. Each run can be almost completely different and I enjoy getting lost in areas of the city that I haven’t fully explored.
<br><br>
Just as enjoyable however, is the challenge of connecting up the pockets of the city that I do know. A prime example was my run this Sunday. I exited Green Park tube at 07:00am and set off in the direction of Leicester Square. From there I made my way down the Strand and eventually to the Tower of London, before tracing part of the London Marathon route from Tower Bridge to Canary Wharf. I hugged the Thames as it flows around the Docklands and with a few twists and turns, emerged near Canning Town station.
<br><br>
Heading north I followed the tracks of the jubilee line to Stratford and excitedly entered the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park. It’s hard to believe that it is almost four years ago that I was lucky enough to work there for that incredible summer. 
<br><br>
There was enough time for a quick circuit of Hackney Marshes before winding my way through Hackney Wick to Victoria Park. The final leg took me down the Regents Canal to finish back in Canary Wharf. Incidentally Canary Wharf also holds brilliant memories for me of my year of work on the Olympic & Paralympic Games. 
<br><br>
Overall the run allowed me to stitch several areas of this great city together. What’s exciting for me is that I will always have new places to find and as an extension always have yet more opportunities to weave nostalgia with exploration. 
<br><br>
As a complete aside point, I would like to give a quick mention to the elderly lady who beamed at me as I was going past Star Lane DLR on Sunday. The chance of you ever reading this is almost zero but if you ever do, please know that your smile and the way you mimed running along with me, was exactly the boost I needed at that point of the run. 
