---
layout: post
title: "Day Thirty Two - Freswick to John O'Groats "
date:   2016-10-08
author: Matt
active: blog
---
It’s official – I am an end-to-ender! After 32 of days of running I reached John O’Groats shortly after 11am and was given a fantastic welcome by my brother Will and my mum Jacqui. My mum had prepared a ‘You did it Matt’ banner, my brother was playing the [Glasgow 2014 medal ceremony music](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27NKzGwK5mM) and they even set off party poppers as I took my final few steps. It didn’t stop there. After a few photos with the iconic John O’Groats sign post (the one that points back down to Land’s End amongst other places) I was ushered over to a raised platform. The medal ceremony music was played once more. Confused, I looked over at my mum who was retrieving something from a small bag. What emerged was a gold medal - no not one of those boring genuine gold medals - a knitted gold medal! My mum placed it over my head and shook my hand sincerely. Will caught the presentation on [film]( https://www.facebook.com/runningforrefugees/videos/vb.944238958983875/1176596289081473/?type=2&theater&notif_t=like&notif_id=1475947645268606) – it is well worth a watch if you haven’t seen it already.  We really did cause quite a scene! 
<br><br>
For those of you that have read my blog regularly you will know that several times along this journey I have reached milestones and have felt a little flat afterwards. I was concerned that might happen for the end of my journey too. However so far that flatness has largely stayed away. That is not to say that I don’t expect the next few weeks to contain waves of feeling a little lost but for now I feel suitably proud. A certain portion of this pride is for my own personal achievement but more significantly I am proud of the network of people that made this all possible. In [yesterday’s blog]( http://www.runningforrefugees.co.uk/2016/10/07/Forse-to-Freswick.html) I started to thank those that had been involved by talking about our hosts and about those that had joined me on the road. I have a few more thank yous to make. 
<br><br>
I would like to start by mentioning the organisations that have sponsored the challenge. I am aware that may sound rather ‘corporatey’ but the fact that these organisations put faith in me was a big deal and I am very grateful to them for doing so. [Mizuno]( http://www.mizuno.eu/en) were my shoe providers and boy did those shoes have to work hard. [Dare2b]( http://www.dare2b.com/) provided me with the range of fantastic clothing that you have seen me wear over the last 5 weeks. My physio Jess from the [Injury Active Clinic]( http://injuryactive.com/) has been absolutely fantastic both whilst I was training and during the challenge. Two more stops! Firstly to the [Rotary Club of Cambridge]( http://www.rotary-ribi.org/clubs/homepage.php?ClubID=460) who provided funding to help cover the costs of the support car. The club have recently been doing their own fundraising to help refugees, with their Auction of Promises raising over £25,000. Finally thank you to the Bassil Shippam and Alsford Trust who also kindly provided funding to cover project costs. 
<br><br>
Before I move onto the final thank yous I would like to say that there are many many individuals that have gone the extra mile (pardon the pun) to support this challenge. I was going to try to mention all of them but I soon realised that not only would this blog go on for days but I would also likely inadvertently forget someone. Needless to say that I am incredibly thankful to you all. 
<br><br>
The final mention is reserved for those that formed the support team - Jo, Court, Will, Jacqui, Tom, Chris, Anna and Killian. This group of people have given up significant amounts of their time to support this challenge both in advance of me starting and over the last five weeks. They have been the route planners, the fundraisers, the logistic organisers, the website builders, the drivers, the ice givers, the socialisers, the problem solvers and the motivators. They have been as much of this challenge as I have been and they have been the reason why we have raised in excess of £12,000 so far. It won’t be the last time that you hear it from me but thank you to you all! 
<br><br>
So what is there left to say. My challenge has come to an end and it is time for me to hang up my long distance running shoes (for the time being anyway). But of course the challenge for those that we have been raising money for is far from over. The worldwide crisis that we have seen over the past few years is vast and unfortunately looks set to continue. It can be an extremely depressing outlook. There is however hope. A network of individuals, organisations and charities are working extremely hard to better the lives of those that have been left with next to nothing. Indeed the money that this challenge has raised for the Refugee Council will be put to fantastic use supporting and empowering refugees. However please do not underestimate your ability to support and empower refugees too. If this challenge has reaffirmed anything, it is that wonderful generous people exist in all corners of this country and beyond. It has proved that a group of people connected by a common cause can take positive steps and that these steps, when placed together, can cover vast distances. 
<br><br>
Thank you again for supporting Running for Refugees. 
<br><br>
Matt

