---
layout: post
title: "Day Twenty Nine - Tain to Brora"
date:   2016-10-05
author: Matt
active: blog
---
I want to start by talking a little bit about visiting the ‘Highland’s support Refugees’ group. Will, Sean and I travelled to see them in Dingwall whilst I was resting up on Monday. Here is what we knew before we arrived: they collect clothes for refugee camps across Europe; the person we were meeting was called Jude. Apart from that we didn’t really know what to expect. We had vague visions of standing awkwardly outside a couple of shipping containers staring at a pile of unorganised clothes. That couldn’t really have been further from the truth. 
<br><br>
We were welcomed by Jude and were ushered into an old council building. Jude explained that the building is due to be demolished but they have been allowed to take over the ground floor until it is. They really have taken over! The three of us were left gobsmacked by the scale and level of organisation they had established in the one year they have been going. In our guided tour we were shown rooms for women’s clothes, men’s clothes, women’s and men’s shoes and even toiletries. Each was meticulously organised, ready to be shipped out to a range of different refugee camps. We were then shown through to the room where the children’s clothes are sorted and kept. It was there that the day’s work was taking place. A group of volunteers were going through the piles and piles of clothes that had been donated from across the Highlands. We even lent a helping hand by sorting the clothes into different age groups and different genders. 
<br><br>
What really came across from our time there was the attention to detail that they have. Everything that they do is focused upon finding practical ways in which to help people who find themselves in camps across Europe. Whether that is placing a pair of socks in each pair of shoes (a dry pair of shoes and socks is essential for refugees who have undertaken perilous journeys across the Mediterranean) or creating packs for mothers to look after their babies, they don’t stop trying to find new ways to help people. You can find out more about the group on their Facebook page.
<br><br>
So onto today’s marathon. The sad news is that Sean left the support team this morning to go back to work and so I was without my cycling companion. I was also unfortunately going to be running along the A9 almost all day. But with 4 days ahead of me I was eager to get started. And so I did! <br><br>
I will, as always, be honest; today was another painful day. My leg doesn’t want to be running but I continue to do so. So I can’t really blame it for hurting! Despite the discomfort I trotted on and made slow but steady progress towards my finishing point north of Brora. The scenery up here is stunning and it certainly did its bit to keep me going. As was the case yesterday, the pain was most intense towards the end of the run but as was the case yesterday, Will was there to greet me with a bag of frozen peas and a brotherly hug. 
<br><br>
What has really stuck out over the last few days is that our actions and words, no matter how small, make a real difference especially when we do or say these things together. I see this with every marathon I complete; each step is very small but collectively they allow me to travel vast differences. A much more important example is the work of the Highland’s Support Refugees Group. Collectively this wonderful group of people have created a movement that is making a real difference to the lives of refugees, one item of clothing at a time. My point is that we can all do our bit even if you don’t fancy running the length of the country. By supporting the Refugee Council (and other Refugee charities) we are supporting work that gives Refugees the chance to find a new home, new job opportunities, new skills and hopefully stability and happiness. 
<br><br>
With three days left of my challenge I would be extremely grateful if you could annoy your friends one last time with details of my journey. When doing so please do send them my JustGiving link. Thank you so much for your support. 3 to go…
